Add documentation to the project's readme (#2)
vector-im/synapse-room-access-rules: README.md

# Room Access rules

> This module implements handling around the `im.vector.room.access_rules` state event, which spec is described below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module implements handling around the `im.vector.room.access_rules` state event. A specification for which is described below.
```

Author: Rewording a bit since your version sounds weird to me:

```suggestion
This module implements handling around the `im.vector.room.access_rules` state event. A specification for this event is described below.
```

## `im.vector.room.access_rules`

Restricts the access to a room based on the selected preset. Body:

```json
{
    "rule": "<rule>"
}
```

`<rule>` is either `restricted`, `unrestricted` or `direct`.

The implementation of the different presets lives in the
`synapse.third_party_rules.access_rules` module.

### `restricted` preset

> Default preset for non-direct rooms.

Reviewer: I was a bit confused as to whether `direct` here referred to the "direct" preset, or 1:1 rooms. But looks like it's the latter.

```suggestion
Default preset for non-direct rooms (i.e. rooms created with `"is_direct": false`).
```

Author: Edited your suggestion since `is_direct` is an optional parameter defaulting to `false` iirc

Forbids any invite and membership update for users that belong to a server

> that is in the blacklist provided by the server's configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that is in the blacklist provided by the module's configuration
```

As this is a module-specific option, rather than a Synapse option.

(`domains_forbidden_when_restricted`). If the invite is a 3PID invite, queries

> a custom `/info` endpoint of the configured identity server to check if that email

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a custom `/_matrix/identity/api/v1/info` endpoint of the configured identity server to check if the invited email
```

> address would belong to a blacklisted server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
address belongs to a blacklisted server.
```

> address would belong to a blacklisted server.

Reviewer: Presumably the invite is then denied if the email address does indeed belong to a blacklisted server? Or is this information simply stored?

Author: It's denied. I thought it was implied but I can make it explicit.

Author: Huh, I thought I had resolved this thread since I fixed that point.

### `unrestricted` preset

Doesn't apply any restriction on who can join the room.

Forbids any `m.room.power_levels` event that either:

> * change the default power level to a non-0 value, or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* change the `users_default` power level to a non-0 value, or
```

versus `state_default`.

* change the power level for a user from a blacklisted server (see details about the `restricted` preset) to a non-default value

> ### `direct` preset

Reviewer: I understand the rules of this preset now, but is there a succinct explanation of why this preset is useful that we could add to the top here?

Reviewer: heh, well, fair. I mention this in case some other customer comes along asking (at a high level) for a similar implementation, but we don't have a high-level overview of what this one does, so we don't think to re-use this implementation.

Author: I'm not sure it's worth it, since a) I think you can get a better gist of it by reading down the rest of that section (which isn't super long), b) it's pretty Tchap-specific and not very flexible, and c) there's a chance at least part of this module is replaced with ACLs or something similar in the future.

> Default preset for direct rooms (i.e. rooms created with `"direct": true`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Default preset for direct rooms (i.e. rooms created with `"is_direct": true`).
```

I think? https://spec.matrix.org/unstable/client-server-api/#post_matrixclientv3createroom

Only allow two members in the room by running the following algorithm for
each new event of type `m.room.member` or `m.room.third_party_invite` sent
into the room:

0. retrieve the list of memberships and 3PID invite tokens from the room's state, which in practice means retrieving the state key of every `m.room.member` or `m.room.third_party_invite` event present in the room's state (ignoring 3PID invite events with an empty content)

> 1. if there already is a `m.room.third_party_invite` event in the room's state and the new event is of the same type, refuse the event if the state key isn't the same as used by one of the 3PID invites returned by step 0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. if the event is of type `m.room.third_party_invite`, reject it if an existing `m.room.third_party_invite` event in the room has the same state key
```

Author: Err, no, that's not true. It rejects the event if there's at least one other 3pid invite in the room, but none of the 3pid invites in the room's state has the same state key as the new event.

```suggestion
1. if the event is of type `m.room.third_party_invite`, and there are already events of the same type in the room's state, reject the new event if its state key doesn't match the state key of one of the existing events.
```

> 2. else, if there already are two members in the room:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. else, if there are already two members in the room:
```

    2.1. if the event is a 3PID invite, reject it

    2.2. if the event is a membership update, reject it if the target isn't one of the room's current members

3. else, if there is one membership event and one 3PID invite in the room's state:

    3.1. if the event is a membership event, reject it if it's not an invite exchanged from the 3PID invite that's in the room's state

    3.2. otherwise, reject the event

4. else, accept the event

Also forbids sending an event of the type `m.room.name`, `m.room.avatar_url`
or `m.room.topic` into the room.

### Interaction with `m.room.join_rules`

> A change in the room's join rules that changes the join rule to `public` in
> a room which isn't using the `restricted` preset is forbidden. This is to ensure
> users on blacklisted servers (see details about the `restricted` preset) can't
> join a room unless they have been invited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the preset of the room is something other than `restricted`, changing the
room's join rule to `public` is forbidden. This is to ensure
users on blacklisted servers (see details about the `restricted` preset) can't
join a room unless they have been invited.
```

## Installation

> TODO

Author: This is because the project isn't on PyPI yet.

## Config

Add the following to your Synapse config:

```yaml
modules:
  - module: room_access_rules.RoomAccessRules
    config:
        # List of domains (server names) that can't be invited to rooms if the
        # "restricted" rule is set. Defaults to an empty list.
        domains_forbidden_when_restricted: []
    

>         # Identity server to use when checking the HS an email address belongs to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # Identity server to use when checking the homeserver an email address belongs to
```

        # using the /info endpoint. Required.
        id_server: "vector.im"
```

## Development and Testing

This repository uses `tox` to run tests.

### Tests

This repository uses `unittest` to run the tests located in the `tests`
directory. They can be ran with `tox -e tests`.

### Making a release

```
git tag vX.Y
python3 setup.py sdist
twine upload dist/synapse-room-access-rules-X.Y.tar.gz

> git push origin vX.Y

Reviewer: Do we want to sign releases?

Author: I guess so.

Author: Why would we be signing release for this module specifically? We're not doing signed releases on other modules.

Reviewer: Oh, well, is there a reason not to sign all our modules upon release?

Author: #synapse-dev says we should be signing tags.
